[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We will continue on in
our discussion of scope and closures.
We're gonna take that interesting
detour where we're gonna talk about
the this keyword.
Which might, as we start to look at
this it might look a little strange,
why are we talking about that right in the
middle of scope and closure discussion?
But [COUGH] again, as I mentioned before,
the idea here is I wanna give you a good
solid contrast between the lexical scoping
model, which is an author time decision.
And this mechanism that JavaScript
has called the this keyword,
which, as we're gonna see,
starts to approximate or
look a little bit more like
the dynamic scoping model.
So to explain the this keyword, our sort
of what you need to know definition,
we're gonna say is that,
every function, while it's executing,
has a reference to its own
current execution context.
And we'll call that
reference the this keyword.
Now, technically the execution,
we're fibbing a little bit,
because technically the execution context
includes more than just the this keyword.
There's more to it, there's your local
variable stack and other things like that.
But for our purposes,
all we care about is that this binding, so
our execution context,
we'll say, is our this keyword.
What do we mean by that execution context?
What we mean by the execution context
is where the function is called, or
how the function is
called when it's called.
So we're gonna need to go back and
look at that callsite.
And to draw your attention
back to this diagram before,
we saw the lexical scoping model,
was like taking the elevator or
the stairs of this building
on the left hand side.
What we're gonna see now is this this
mechanism that we're gonna look at.
It's kind of like, metaphorically,
telling us the address of which
building on the right to go into.
So you got a bunch of buildings
down town in your city.
And each one of them has
a different address and
you need to meet with somebody.
Well the first thing that they're gonna
have to tell you is the address of
the building to go to.
Before you can even go into
the first floor of the building and
start looking for their office,
you're gonna have to know their address.
So this mechanism that we are going to
talk about, that is the this keyword, is
going to essentially tell us the address
of which building to be looking at.
And it is,
the rest of today we will expose what
the rest of that building metaphor is, but
right now we're talking about how do we
figure out which first floor to go into.
All right, so there are four rules for
how the this keyword gets bound.
And they all depend upon
what we call the callsite.
The callsite is the place in code
where a function gets executed,
with its open close parentheses, okay?
So contrary to everything
that you may think about,
where the this keyword means something
to do, like myself or self or
anything like that, you're gonna have
to set all of those conceptions aside.
You may have conceptions that the this
keyword has something to do with classes,
and object orienting, and
instances, and all that other stuff.
You're gonna have to set all
of that completely aside.
And you're gonna have to set aside,
in general, what the this keyword
means in any other language.
So I'm not making a value statement on
that JavaScript's mechanism is good or
bad or better than anyone else's, but
I am going to tell you the four rules.
And this is, again,
sort of defensible from the spec.
I'm gonna tell you the four rules for
how the this keyword will get bound in our
code for normal functions, and
you just have to learn those rules.
And I'll tell you not only the rules but
the order of precedence, in other words,
which rule takes precedence,
which rule should I ask about first?
What you will need to do then,
if you ever have another problem with
figuring out the this keyword,
[COUGH] is to go find the callsite.
And ask these four rules in order of that
call site, and they will definitively tell
you what the this keyword will be,
that's all you need to know.
You don't need to know anything
at all about, except for
where that function is called,
when it's called, how does it get called?
That's the only thing that matters.
Doesn't matter where our
function's declared.
Doesn't matter whether there's classes,
or objects, or anything else involved.
The only thing that matters is,
what does the callsite look like?
And we'll take a look at those four rules.
So the first of those four rules that
we're gonna look at is actually the fourth
rule in terms of order of precedence, and
it's the rule that I call
the default binding rule.
So let's examine this code.
We've got a function foo up here, lines
1 through 3, and on lines 1 through 3,
this function declares that it
makes a reference to this keyword.
It says this stop bar, so
immediately we know that the this
keyword needs to reference an object.
It's not referencing a primitive, a number
or a Boolean, and it's always an object.
So we're referencing an object
that we can look at properties on.
So we're expecting that there
should be a non empty binding or
reference to some object, and
we should be able to ask whether or
not that object has a bar property on it.
And if it does, we should be able
to get that bar properties value.
So when we call foo in the normal sense,
I'm gonna call this the plain,
undecorated sense of the word for
a function call, that looks like line 9.
The callsite on line 9,
the function stands alone all by itself.
There's nothing special to it.
We can pass parameters if we need to.
But it's just a reference to the function,
and there's nothing else
to that function call.
And when that is what the callsite looks
like, the default binding rule applies.
And I would say that this is
also true even with IIFEs.
So it's when there's just
an immediate function right there and
it just gets called with a parentheses.
So in our IIFE case,
where we have a function expression there,
same sort of deal.
It's the function expression,
or in this case,
a reference to the variable called foo.
But we get that function
object right there and
then we immediately call it
with an open close parentheses.
That's a normal function call, and in that
case, the default binding rule applies.
The reason is that none of the other
three rules that we're about to learn
will apply, so it falls through to the
fourth, catch-all rule, the default rule.
Now the default rule says this,
if you are in strict mode,
default of this keyword
to the undefined value.
If you are not in strict mode, default
of this keyword to the global object.
That's what the default binding rule says.
So it gets a default value and
it'll either be undefined or
it will be the global, and it can't be
anything but one of those two values.
And it's dependent entirely
on the strict mode.
And by the way, it's not the strict
mode of the entire program, but
it's the strict mode of the code
running inside of the foo function.
So if the foo function itself did use
strict, then that would be the case.
It doesn't matter what the outer call
code is, it matters only the contents of
the function, that's what's gonna
define our strict mode here.
Okay, so our foo function
is being called like that,
same thing as if it was an IIFE,
it's gonna hit that default rule.
Now you remember when I showed you
earlier in the spec, I showed you kind
of the genesis or the support for
that is right there in the spec.
If you refer back, if you go back to
the videos afterwards, you can go back and
see I showed you where
it had those two points.
And one of them said use the this rule,
otherwise use the global.
So you can see right there where
the default rule is coming from.
Okay, so that's the first of our
four rules is the default rule.
Let's learn the second of our four rules,
we're kind of learning them in reverse
order of precedence, by the way,
and that's on purpose.
The third of our four rules, or
the second rule that we're gonna learn,
which turns out to be the third
of our four rules in precedence,
is what I'm gonna call
the implicit binding rule.
So let's take a look at that.
What you'll see is,
here I've got a couple of [COUGH] objects.
I've got an o2 and
an o3 object here on line 6 and 7.
They both have bar properties on them
that have unique values to identify them.
But also see that they have references
[COUGH] to our same foo function.
Now it's important to
note that in JavaScript
everything is a reference to an object.
Everything is a reference to a function.
You never have where it's
the foo variable on line 1
sort of owns the function and then this
guy's a copy of it, or anything like that.
They're just references.
So we have, in this case,
on line 6, we have two different
references to the foo function.
We have the global variable foo,
that's referencing it, and
we have, o2.foo, is referencing it.
They are both peer references to the same
function object, neither one of them owns
more than the other, regardless of where
it was declared, they're just references.
So we just sort of implicitly put a
reference to a function on an object, and
then, on line 10 you can see,
we can say, o2.foo.
So we can make a reference to a function
via the object property reference.
And when we do that, when the callsite
looks like o2.foo, in other words,
when there is an object property
reference at the callsite, the third of
those rules in terms of precedence kicks
in, which is the implicit binding rule.
And it says that that
object at the callsite,
what's called the base object here, or
the context object, or the owning or
containing object depending
on how you think about it.
But there's a lot of
different ways to explain it.
But, that object becomes the this keyword,
the this binding.
So in our case, when we call o2.foo,
it's the exact same function being called.
But when the callsite is o2.foo,
as it is on line 10,
then the this keyword will point to o2 and
that's why we get bar2.
And the exact same thing with o3.
Is everybody following so far?
Two of our four rules already
shown just on this one slide.
The implicit binding rule has an owning or
containing context object at the callsite.
The default rule has nothing but
just a plain old normal function call.
>> Kyle Simpson: Just to further reinforce
the fact that it doesn't matter where
a function is declared,
nobody owns it more than anybody else.
In this case I'm doing the exact
same thing as in the previous slide.
But I put my function initially on o1, and
then I made another reference to it on o2.
Absolutely no difference
in terms of its behaviour.
The only thing that matters is
what the callsite looks like.
When I say o1.foo on line 12, I get bar1.
When I say o2.foo on line 13, I get bar2.
And when I say foo without any
kind of thing at the callsite,
I get my default binding rule,
which gives me bar3..
By the way, if it wasn't obvious,
the global object, in this case, in
the browser it's the window, in node it's
an actual object called the global object.
But the global object has properties
on it which correspond to,
that are the same as,
any global variables.
So, if I have a global variable called
bar, there's also a global object property
called bar that's, they're not copies of
each other they are one and the same.
There's a global property and a global
variable and they are one and the same.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 1: There's
a question from online chat.
Is there a place where they can
see these rules in writing?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes in my book.
You don't know JavaScript,
youdontknowjs.com, the second title,
this & Object Prototypes, chapter two.
I describe it all in exquisite detail.
You can go to the spec and
look through all the different ways,
like I was talking about earlier, and
you can divine for yourself these rules.
But I've tried to distill these
rules down into human friendly form,
the what you need to know form, and
that's what I'm presenting here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
So our default rule and
our implicit binding rule.
Now I wanna take a little bit
of a detour for just a moment.
And I wanna talk about a binding confusion
problem that happens with people,
because despite, yeah, sorry,
was there another question?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
another one came right after, I'm sorry.
>> Kyle Simpson: No problem.
>> Speaker 1: What happens if
o2 doesn't have a bar property?
Does it default back to the global bar?
>> Kyle Simpson: Great question.
We're not gonna fully be able to
answer that actually accurately, but
I would say it definitely does
not refer back to the global bar.
>> Speaker 1: Does not.
>> Kyle Simpson: It does not.
But we'll have to understand the prototype
chain before we can actually fully answer
that accurately.
And we'll get to that
by the end of the day.
So remind them, if you would,
that if I don't answer that fully for
them by the end of the day to re-ask.